.TH JUKE 1 "2026-07-12" "jukebox 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
juke \- Apple Music for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B juke
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIquery\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A three-panel TUI remote control for Music.app on macOS. Music.app keeps doing
the playing; juke drives it over
.BR osascript ,
renders cover art as real pixels via the Kitty graphics protocol, and pulls
time-synced lyrics from lrclib.net. Run with no command to open the TUI.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B play [\fIquery\fR]
Pick a song and play it. With no query, resume playback.
.TP
.B queue [\fIquery\fR]
Pick songs to play next — appended to juke's own queue (see
.BR QUEUE ).
With no query, show the queue.
.TP
.B play \-q <\fIquery\fR>
Same as
.BR queue .
.TP
.B album <\fIquery\fR>
Pick an album, play it in order.
.TP
.B artist <\fIquery\fR>
Pick an artist, play everything by them.
.TP
.B playlist <\fIquery\fR>
Pick a playlist, play it.
.TP
.B search <\fIquery\fR>
List matching songs without playing.
.TP
.B pause
Toggle play/pause.
.TP
.B next\fR, \fBprev
Skip to the next / previous track. Walks juke's queue when one is active,
Music's own transport otherwise.
.TP
.B shuffle
Toggle shuffle.
.TP
.B repeat
Cycle repeat (off \(-> all \(-> one).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.SH TUI KEYS
.B j/k
or arrows move,
.B enter
play,
.B l
open album/playlist,
.B h
back,
.B a
add to queue,
.B 1\-4
switch tabs,
.B tab
cycles preview/lyrics/queue.
In the queue view:
.B enter
play,
.B x
remove,
.B J/K
reorder.
.B /
filter,
.B esc
clear,
.B space
pause,
.B \(<-/\(->
prev/next,
.B +/\-
volume,
.B s
shuffle,
.B r
repeat,
.B q
quit.
.SH QUEUE
Music.app never exposed its real Up Next to scripting, so juke keeps its own:
.I ~/.cache/jukebox/queue.json
plus a detached watcher process (spawned automatically by any play or queue
operation) that starts the next queued track just before the current one
ends. The queue survives closing the terminal; the watcher exits when the
queue runs out, or stands down if you start playing something else yourself.
Playlists picked with
.B juke playlist
play natively through Music.app instead.
.PP
Trade-offs: no gapless playback between queued tracks, and Music's
shuffle/repeat settings do not apply to the queue \(em it always plays in
order.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.cache/jukebox/
Cover art, lyrics, the queue file, and the watcher pidfile. Regenerable;
safe to delete.
.SH NOTES
Lyrics come from lrclib.net (sends title/artist/duration when the lyrics view
is open). macOS only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR osascript (1)
